<pre>
  BIP: 272
  Title: Simplified Payment Protocol URIs
  Author: Wallet Workshop
  Created: 2019-02-22
</pre>

==Abstract==

This BIP describes additional scheme beside the bitcoin: URI scheme (BIP 3) to
support the simplified payment protocol (BIP 270).

==Motivation==

Allow users to click on a link in a web page or email or scan a QR codes to
initiate the payment protocol, while being backwards-compatible with existing
bitcoin wallets.

==Specification==

The pay: URI scheme is introduced. It could have the same prefix like in BIP3 (bitcoin:)
but the proposed one is more generic and fits better for multi-currency wallets.

The scheme requires one "r" parameter, whose value is a URL from which a PaymentRequest
message should be fetched (characters not allowed within the scope
of a query parameter must be percent-encoded as described in RFC 3986
and bip-0003).

When Bitcoin wallet software that supports this BIP receives a
pay: URI with a request parameter, it should fetch a
PaymentRequest message and then follow the payment protocol, as
described in BIP 270.

Bitcoin wallets must support fetching PaymentRequests via the
HTTPS protocol; they may support other protocols. Wallets must
include an "Accept" HTTP header in HTTPS requests (as defined
in RFC 2616):

<pre>Accept: application/bitcoinsv-paymentrequest</pre>

If a PaymentRequest cannot be obtained (perhaps the server is
unavailable), then the customer should be informed that the merchant's
payment processing system is unavailable. In the case of an HTTP
request, status codes which are neither success nor error (such as
redirect) should be handled as outlined in RFC 2616.

==Compatibility==

This BIP is not compatible with the original one (BIP3) and Wallet software that does not support this BIP
cannot proceed with a payment. 

==Examples==
<pre>
pay:?sv&r=https://merchant.com/pay.php?h%3D2a8628fc2fbe
</pre>

==References==

[[http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616.html|RFC 2616]] : Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1 
